hello everyone I am joined right now by
parth from TSM to talk about some
changes that are occurring with him
within the TSM organization so parth
first off thanks for the interview hi
Travis
oh hello you're gonna I'm gonna trust
you with the arrow mic for this one so
hopefully you can you can handle that
yeah hopefully yeah I've had practice
now yeah so let's talk a little bit
about what is happening so worlds ends
everybody's like very critical of you
and did you did you actually see most of
that or did you kind of isolate yourself
from that did I see that result coming
no no sorry the criticism specifically
to you from oh yeah yeah I think after
worlds or any major tournaments no one
really checks reddit or at least I don't
love the criticism that I had for myself
was mostly introspective so read it
really had I know there was like a lot
of conversation that I saw later on
that's saying that Oh reddit influenced
the decisions that were being made on
TSM but most of the decisions that were
being made were pretty introspective
from like the org side so it wasn't
really influenced but what how did the
decision come to be that you would no
longer be the coach was that something
that you had decided was this a
conversation sure the way that 2016-2017
played out for TSM was we already had
like a structure in mind we were into
2016 that's when we brought on charge
and Casey as like a like a dual coaching
structure but when that didn't pan out
it was on very short notice and we
needed someone to coach the team which
is when I started in the end of spring
so in the summer which had the same
coaching system again but at this time
it was with me and Weldon I think that
system worked out pretty well I learned
a lot about like the nuances of coaching
from like the like mental health and
like just the health perspective because
that's that was his expertise and also
there were a lot of things about
communication that he taught as well in
terms of how to not only work with the
team but also train them in order to
like help instill habits so going to
2017 we were still kind of looking for a
new coach during the offseason
there was no one that I felt that was
really good enough to work with the team
so I decided that 2017 I would try it
one more time we learned a lot in 2016
worlds and it was a pretty good
experience for all the players since
this was like the first like major time
where we thought we had like a really
good shot
so in 2017 we fixed a lot of the issues
that we had in the regular season we
diversified our like play style we learn
how to play both like learn how to play
a macro in the late game that was like a
big weakness of ours in 2016 but and
even going into Worlds I think our
bootcamp was pretty productive it just
ended up we just had like a gaping
weakness in the games and that that was
one of those things that I wasn't able
to like fixed in time and the players
weren't either
and so I knew before going into like
2017 Worlds is if we didn't perform in
order to first like meet our
expectations I wasn't gonna be coaching
again so it was pretty preset and I do
want to follow up because in the start
of that answer you had mentioned that
you could not find anybody that you
thought was good enough to coach for TSM
this year a lot of people will say like
why don't they get Tony from CLG why
didn't they get reapered or whoever you
know for the context around that you
know why didn't word she able to secure
these types of coaches sure so Tony
wasn't someone I actually really
considered and I like spoke to Tony a
few times in the offseason but it seemed
like Tony was incredibly committed to
CLG and I mean he is like in him he's
one of the coaches that I respect a lot
in the scene right now and even last
year too
but again he was just very committed to
CLG as for a Korean coach they're having
a lot of examples of people working with
Korean players and coaches in the past
and we always feel like it's a cultural
thing it's really hard to tell if when
you bring these people over if it's
gonna work out in like a new environment
with the coaching new players and we'd
already committed to having a full
english-speaking roster so at that time
we felt like it would be
too much of a challenge to bring over a
Korean coach who's used to a completely
different ecosystem and how things work
and have them work with a na roster
which is why I think this time it makes
a lot more sense for us since song is
that our new coach because he's not only
he's not only really good at what he
does he's also proven himself on
immortals in terms of working with like
the culture here him adapting to na him
working with english-speaking players so
it just made a lot more sense for us to
pursue that Avenue this year as opposed
to last year yeah let's talk about how
song came into play was this your
decision Andy's decision was there an
interview process you know how involved
were you in picking your successor sure
so in terms of picking out the coaching
staff it was maybe 95 percent me as soon
as we got back from morals I think three
or four days after I reached out to both
song and dodo and I like sat down and we
sort of talked about this year and
worlds and just coaching in general and
that's when I knew that I'd really like
for him to work with TSM next year him
being something song yes sorry and so I
like expressed that to him and then
that's that was when that was before he
even started looking for other
opportunities because he wanted to like
gauge his options so I think after that
there was like a month where he said
he'll let me know or get back to me if
it was something that he was interested
in during that time period I spoke to a
lot of other coaches in the scene but
then when song came back we were able to
like negotiate an offer that made sense
for both of us and he was one of my top
choices anyway so I'm really glad we
have him you started that story by
saying song and dodo yes but you ended
it with song correct so what oh you
could fill the blank with dodo yeah oh
yes he's neuron teamliquid so correct
I mean lustboy is someone who had worked
with us in the past and he was gonna
come over anyway as like an estate
assistant or strategic coach so we we
already knew that lustboy was gonna be
on our coaching staff even probably even
before worlds ended for 2018 okay and so
then it
turned out that you didn't really need
dodo to supplement the stuff correct
I think dodo is really incredible as
like a person because he's not only he
was it used to be a pro player he is he
was a manager for immortals and he also
translates he's also a translated
because he speaks Korean and that
commodity is someone that we disses we
didn't need someone in our staff to fill
all three roles and so in terms of
compensation it just made more sense for
him to go to an org where all of his
like skill set will be like utilize this
noise does that make sense so your new
role is general manager yep I believe
this got announced because through
Reggie's Instagram story
oh yeah the TSS credit yeah so that was
kind of funny but how did how did you
end up sticking around was there ever
thought of leaving eSports or leaving
TSM going to different team
you know what led you to the GM role
sure so when I came onto the scene
coaching isn't something that it wasn't
like my like initial idea like where a
lot of other people are coming on the
scene say oh I'm gonna be an analyst and
institution coach then I want to be a
coach for a team I really just wanted to
work in eSports and I really enjoy
working with Andy and Erickson and so I
can like after world ended I considered
potentially going to work for another
team but coaching another theme didn't
really interest me
I'm way more interested in working with
TSM and so it just made more sense for
me to move ladder like move to a
different position in New York whether
then go work for someone else
yeah well will your cuz GM means
something in sports it doesn't can be an
entirely different thing in eSports do
you know the full extent of your you
know role and everything now that you
guys have figured it out yes so we're
still working on it TSM is still pretty
small in terms of like how many people
work there so everyone who works at TSM
does pretty much everything so there'll
be some involvement in terms of me
working with sponsors Riot the players
but in terms of just working with League
teams and now since there's gonna be an
academy team as well
I'm gonna be running I'll just be the
point of contact for both teams from TSN
perspective yeah in the past you have
shied away from the spotlight media
interviews declining a lot of interviews
really gonna is that is they change now
that you're a general manager I do think
that big role of being a GM is being a
liaison right representing TSM and so
I'm more open to doing it right now
because it's just interpreting the
things that the org wants to like the
orc wants to do for the perfectly
whereas you know my coaching role a lot
of the things that I'd really didn't
want to do is because as a coach being
in the public eye doesn't really benefit
me or the team very much and so I'll
definitely be more open with like
everything that's happening from the orc
side and what changes we've that we're
gonna do in the team and yeah I think
it'll be more open but maybe maybe not
with Travis eSports what cuz you first
forced me to answer this question well I
this is a legitimate question right you
people were aware that you were part of
the team but unlike other people in the
space you had been kind of quiet you
were you had your Twitter which I don't
even think has an actual picture of you
it's like a drawing or something yeah
yeah if it's a microphone in front yeah
yes yes and and you know TSM fans I'm
sure really like to hear from you and
your thoughts I feel it's a fair
question so okay here's the thing from
TSS tsm's perspective we're pretty
pretty transparent with everything we do
yeah and we like to decide how we like
want to distribute this news to the
public no one in the public is ever like
doubting the things that we're doing or
unaware if like the situation that we're
in sure so regardless of whether or not
it's gonna be me who's gonna be like the
public face of translating all of those
to the public or if we announce all
those either we we our website or
interviews with like our tsm's
own media staff yeah that's still yet to
be determined but in terms of
transparency going from last year are
from this year to next year that's not
gonna change very much from TSM yeah I
wasn't trying to speak to the broad me
just
just meant specifically parth it was not
on camera that often and did not it you
know to as many interviews yeah I mean
I'll definitely be more open to it this
look very very cool so at the end of
this interview is there anything that
you would like to say to any of the fans
that are looking to TSM for hype next
year interest I think it's an
interesting position you guys find
yourself in because you always command
so much attention you have so much
success during a regular season and now
it's kind of weird because people get
hyped about it but then they say oh but
then the international that might not
work out so well so it's just an
interesting situation you find yourself
and I don't know if you have anything
you want to say to any of the fans sure
so to the fans I can say this just
because we didn't meet our goals this
year last year the years before we're
not gonna change what we believe in is
in network and you can see that with the
changes that we're making because we had
a really good roster this year and one
of the options for us was to keep this
roster but both me and Andy believe and
being proactive and making sure that we
do any changes even if they might be
risky in order for us to like pursue our
goals is at TSM like the org which is to
do well internationally so I was really
sad when we did end up deciding to let
our old players go I was really close
with them and I'm not sure that everyone
who's watching this was close as well
but the new players that are joining our
org are really awesome and as you slowly
get to see how much work they put into
TSM and what they're like as
personalities I'm sure you'll get to
look like you'll get to love them too
and so I hope you guys support the new
coach the new staff and all the new
players and hope that you believe in
what Andy believes is that change might
not necessarily be like the safest
option but it's definitely what we
believe is gonna propel TSM forward for
next year part thank you so much for the
interview for ever else you can check
out the rest of our coverage of all
things eSports right here on my youtube
channel
okay here we go I want to introduce you
to my cameraman Broden come over here
come over here so for the most part
since I ended my Yahoo eSports career oh
you need to get over okay cool
so and then you need to crouch yeah okay
yeah is this better or now we're out of
focus right we're out of focus okay well
either way since I ended my career at
Yahoo Broden for the most part a couple
other people have helped out but pro has
been doing this virtually for free at
the LCS so if you'd like to help support
some of that money will eventually maybe
kind of make its way over to Broden you
can do so over at Travis CARICOM slash
support what do you have to say for
yourself written virtually nothing makes
it into these pockets but you could
change that
Travis govorkov slash support